Project Statement

My second project, THE NEW SUBWAY, ended up as an attempt to mesh together the subject to respond to together. It took me a while to figure out how to approach this due to the challenge of responding to a philosophical theme or essay succinctly within the time constrain and in a way that is satisfying for both me and my instructor. Having had enough time to let both the Sisyphean challenge and the “Something is wrong with the internet” essay sink in my consciousness, this idea came together as I started working on the code and the main game loop. It was clear from the get-go that the logic of the program would be as thus: the user would get several choices to make a multi-element thing (sandwich was my original example but ended up being the basis for the project) in a “broken” loop where the elements that the user get access to get weirder and weirder while also shrinking, giving by the end a very small pool of strange elements to make a sandwich to the user. This was a way of representing the way, like explained in James Bridle’s essay, how Internet algorithms end up using word salad to generate reactions and views. Though his examples are mainly catered to children and their innocent vulnerability, mine is, for the purpose of an academic research, more aimed at an older audience who can both understand the references – as Subway became my template as the universal sandwich-making place – while also getting the progressive worsening of the menu into a full-on dystopian restaurant where the user as increasingly less effect on the turn of things. 
The project works with multiple arrays and object to reach its final state. Picking up from json files, one title food at first and another one called bizarre later on, the code slowly fills on every new round the list of choices for each category – wrapper, main and stuffing – with elements from different dictionary. Although wrapper only has one dictionary, bread, the other two are filled by different family of words. Each choice from the player are put into a sandwich object containing strings and arrays for each relevant element. As the order “bugs” every time it is done, the player is stuck in this loop of having more and more choice as they go through the motion again. Once the round is past a threshold the experience takes a turn: as the voice becomes more and more derailed, the choices are themselves too becoming weirder as the array for each category are getting filled with non-sequiturs. We also remove a few of the original good choices every turn to turn the choices completely bizarre by a certain round. 
Getting the logic correct in the right order was the biggest challenge for this, especially with the responsiveVoice and annyang thrown in the mix, both of which have their particularities that need to be taken into account in the design of the system. JQuery and button creation was also a bit of a challenge in the way I wanted to use it, though I’ve had plenty of practice with the previous project and some assignments to not be too disoriented. Because all the things need to happen in a precise order it was also difficult to get there and fix all the bugs in time (some might still be present). But my biggest challenge has to be my time management, with which I am becoming increasingly bad at with every subsequent semester of university. I am nonetheless pretty satisfied with the way this project ended up responding to both project one and two and I believe there is a lot of interesting way this could go in the future such as giving more of a personality to Bob as the experience goes forward.

